foreign
but really quickly 30 seconds about me
I'm going to date myself here I've been
working with technology vendors for 27
years
most of my experience has been with the
analyst firms but I have some experience
in the software side last seven years
I've been working with review platforms
mostly recently with G2 helping us to
grow in Asia Pacific I live here in
Singapore you see the picture of my wife
my two sons my two sons seem to be
kicking my ass every day a lot of fun
though
so first off the good news and I think
we all need some good news yeah despite
the economic headwinds that we've seen
people are still buying a lot of sass
yeah from g2's data we've seen that the
average mid-sized company last year had
a hundred and eleven SAS applications
and we're estimating that by next
quarter that's going to rise to 119. so
we are seeing you know some impact from
the economic headwinds and that the
average spend has been coming down
slightly yeah we see companies starting
off with smaller contracts companies are
negotiating a lot more aggressively and
companies are rationalizing their SAS
spend as well yeah many people are
reducing licenses seeing what licenses
they can get around
so overall those SAS is vibrant we're
seeing good growth
I think what we're experiencing right
now the best analogy is a hangover
probably some of you are experiencing a
hangover from the festivities last night
oh last five to ten years we've indulged
ourselves you know there's a lot of
funding A lot's been happening and we're
kind of experiencing that hangover right
now I've been through five economic
crises in my life going all the way back
to the 1998 Asian economic crisis the
great news is they all end and in
hindsight they're often a lot shorter
than we thought they were so like a
hangover
this is going to pass Us by and things
are going to get back to solid growth
moving forward but speaking of hangovers
that's 24 year old me I was probably
hungover in that picture
I was living here in Singapore this is
back half of the 90s that was a hot mess
when I was 24.
I was working at IDC as a junior
salesperson and it was 24 year old me
that started on his first software
buying Journey
so this was the late 1990s I thought
it'd be interesting to look at that
journey and look at how things have
changed between then and now
if you look back in the 90s first of all
who put a 24 year old in charge of
buying CRM
that was a sign of the times yep
software wasn't that important yeah CRM
was new like most companies didn't even
have a CRM
I got most of my information from
magazines reading magazines in the
office trying to figure out what vendors
to work with stayed up late at night
calling those vendors in the States
because their websites were very
rudimentary no information hard to learn
about their products and when I called
those vendors what I was asking for was
a demo CD and I got to wait two weeks
for that to arrive in the mail prayed at
work so I could see the what this vendor
had to offer and how they could help and
then I had a total lack of choice there
literally were five vendors that
potentially could help us that's not a
short list of five that's only five
so we ultimately went with a company
called Goldmine uh very Innovative at
the time I think they're still around
but we went with them as a CRM guess
what we had to wait two weeks for the
software to arrive this nice shiny CR
CD-ROMs that come in the mail so in many
ways it was a much simpler time but as
you can see it was a pretty frustrating
buying process for us so we are going to
fast forward
26 years a 50 year old Chris Perrine is
going to try to buy CRM software and
we're going to dive into that today and
we're going to talk number one how it's
a lot easier to buy software now but
there are also still a lot of challenges
that buyers are facing we're going to
dive into that
so we're going to utilize data from g2's
Global buyer Behavior study so this is a
global study that we do but we also have
information on Asia Pacific where the
asia-pacific data and insight deviates
from the global figures we're going to
call that out so you can see what might
be different here in the region so with
that we are going to start our software
buying Journey
so first off for starters
I need software that's easy to implement
I need to get a quick Roi and I need it
to be easy to use and this has been
pretty consistent in our buyer's study
you know year on year these are the top
three attributes that are driving buyers
decisions the thing that's really
changed though is that buyers want to
see Roi and that's increasing every year
as far as a determinant for their
ultimate buying decision
we're also seeing rois getting condensed
every year it's getting shorter and
shorter when the study came out late
last year it's now six months so buyers
want to see from signing a contract to
six months they want to see positive Roi
that's a challenge for vendors it's
tough in that tight time frame to show
Roi on average you know some buyers have
a longer time Horizon there but on
average it's six months and that again
has been a big challenge for vendors
as a buyer I'm overwhelmed by the sheer
number of vendors that have solutions
for what I'm looking for and I don't
know where to start
this is a big challenge for vendors
there's so much competition out there in
SAS you know if we rewind 26 years I
literally had five options it was simple
five options who am I going to pick
who's the best if you look at G2 CRM
category right now
823 different CRM products qualify for
the category
again CRM is a big category it's a bit
of an outlier but most categories have
anywhere from 50 to 150 products so
there's a lot of competition out there
and that's a challenge for buyers buyers
don't know where to start who do I
shortlist who do I research who can best
serve me
as a buyer I am struggling to find
content to help me choose the right
vendors
this is probably the biggest impediment
for buyers right now from our study the
top five things holding back buyers for
was content so buyers are struggling to
find credible content they're struggling
to find content that's going to help
them understand the vendors offerings
those are the top two consistently have
been the top two what we've seen moving
up is industry content so these are
buyers not looking really for industry
Solutions what they want is information
on how you serve people in their
industry this could be case studies this
could be reviews any type of content
that helps them understand what people
who look like them what success they
have seen with your solution
and that's the one we've really seen
skyrocketing up lately I think assassin
becomes more ubiquitous people are
looking more at specific industry
content to help them make that decision
after we're a buyer
I'm struggling to trust the vendors that
I'm researching
so we saw two slides ago there's a
tremendous amount of competition in SAS
everybody is saying that they're the
best
fancy websites interactive demos they're
pushing case studies
it is a big big challenge for buyers to
understand what is real and what's just
marketing
so a big challenge here is that you can
see only one in three buyers actually
looks at a vendor's website and says
that this is the information source that
I trust the most and that's a big
challenge for vendors because typically
your website is your channel to the
market it's how you communicate what you
do how you add value but yet only one in
three buyers actually trust that in many
cases they're getting information from
other sources
as a buyer I've got more stakeholders
than ever that I have to manage
so as you can see here 71 percent of
buyers said that stakeholders are added
to the buying process either always or
frequently and that's an 11 percentage
Point increase since 2021 and again big
challenge for buyers they have to manage
more stakeholders with more stakeholders
comes more opinions so it's important
not only to buy the right SAS to buy the
right solution but to really get into
this environment of where you're
managing multiple stakeholders through
that process not just in buying but
implementing and utilizing uh the
software that you've put in place
as a software buyer my boss is probably
going to change
we've seen a 60 percent uh rate of where
people are saying decision makers are
changing either always or frequently and
again this is a big challenge for buyers
because buyers have to re-educate these
new decision makers
you know and that's really where content
comes into it we said content was a big
big impediment for buyers buyers are
constantly having to use content to
re-educate these decision makers why do
we have this project why did we pick
these vendors who are we ultimately
going to pick
uh this also has an impact on the link
that it's taking projects to get done
because of this change in decision
makers but inversely for software
sellers those sellers are seeing a
length in their sales Cycles
it's just taking longer to get deals
done
and again that's a big Challenge on the
vendor side as well
as a software buyer
my CFO and my management team is really
pressing me to do a short-term contract
you know my CFO has seen a lot of
software projects not be successful
they've seen software turn into shelf
wear and they're really pressing for a
short-term contract to mitigate their
risk we've seen through the data 57 of
software contracts now are six months or
less
and again as we look regionally
uh Singapore Australia New Zealand
aligned roughly around this 57 Mark give
or take a percent or two India is the
global outlier 69 of software contracts
are six months or less
we also see that while pretty much
shorter term contracts have been in the
SMB space before we're seeing this now
impacting the mid-market and the
Enterprise as well
as a software buyer I don't need to buy
direct anymore I've got options but
where do I buy this is probably the
biggest Trend that we've seen in SAS
looking at alternative channels on one
side you've got the global Cloud
marketplaces the AWS Marketplace the
Azure Marketplace they're really
starting to provide you know the early
stages of almost a b2c type experience
for buyers you know that all in one shop
but we've also seen value-added
resellers and these aren't the vars of
old you know the bars from 10 or 15
years ago that would just go and
Implement software these typically are
service providers that are bringing SAS
into their portfolio of products and
services to serve their customers better
so again from a regional perspective you
can see ANZ in Singapore roughly aligned
with the global averages that we see
India is a bit of the outlier here 70
percent are still going direct with
vendors
as a software buyer if I buy from a
third party Cloud Marketplace is that a
better option for me
it depends really depends on what you're
buying it depends on your organization
but as you can see from the data
buyers are increasingly experimenting
with Cloud marketplaces so AWS
Marketplace the Azure Marketplace there
are various reasons for this
some cases it's just easier One Stop
Shop you've got someone who can manage
multiple software subscriptions you
don't have to go to various vendor
websites to manage that it's all with
one party you see a lot with security as
well
you know AWS Azure other marketplaces
really focus on security they have the
security standards they have the
compliance in place it makes people feel
a little bit better about security as
opposed to dealing with lots of multiple
vendors so this is a trend that we've
seen you can see from the data big
increase from 2020 to 2021 expect to see
that continued increase into 2022 and
2023 where we are now so definitely
something for vendors to take note of
these alternative channels
as a software buyer
with all these challenges that I'm
facing I can actually still transact
pretty quickly and I can do it with a
credit card
so we see 55 percent of software buyers
buying software over twenty thousand
dollars they can transact in three
months or less
and actually in the region pretty
similar it's even a tick higher it's
getting closer to 60 percent so we've
seen that SAS is accelerating the buying
Cycles obviously challenges that we've
outlined but people can still transact
relatively quickly and a lot of that has
to do with credit cards
53 percent of buyers most often now are
buying SAS with a credit card and the
Enterprise is coming up pretty quickly
as well 48 of people in the Enterprise
say they most often buy with a credit
card the global outlier here in
Singapore
35 we're trying to dig into the data to
understand why it's 35 percent uh my
theory here in Singapore we like to
follow the rules we go through
procurement whereas if you look at other
markets I lived in Australia for many
years a lot of Shadow I.T people are
using that credit card to buy software
without going through procurement
so we talked a little bit about the
buying Journey what are the challenges
that buyers are facing as they go
through that Journey now we want to talk
a little bit more about software vendors
what does this mean for you as a vendor
first up is content
content is number one as I mentioned
four out of the top five challenges
buyers outline deal with content buyers
are struggling to find content the
content's not answering their questions
and the content's not going deep enough
I think the main struggle that buyers
are having or better said the mistake
the vendors are making is that they're
writing content and creating content for
what they think buyers need to know
instead of really understanding that
buyer journey and the content that
buyers are consuming yeah if you think
buyers are just going to your website
you're way way wrong buyers are
consuming content in many other areas
they're looking at expert content
they're talking to the analyst firms
they're talking to thought leaders
they're looking at customer content
social media looking at what the review
sites say this is something we call the
Trinity of content vendor content plus
expert content Plus customer content
holistically buyers just view it as
content they are looking at content to
help them solve a problem and they're
getting it from wherever they can but
all of this content is very influential
in the buying process
so as vendors are looking at this
content you need to really think about
content that's going to meet the buyers
need not really what you want to tell
them and that's a great way to build
trust with buyers and if you build trust
with Buyers you're now going to be able
to differentiate yourself going back to
the slides about just the competition
and SAS that trust is a great way to
differentiate so people are looking at
you and you can start having that
conversation
number two
deliver ease of use deliver ease of
implementation and focus on Roi
I don't think this is a surprise to
anyone I'm probably not telling you
anything new here I think the big change
has been on the ROI side as I mentioned
that's increasing in importance and
buyers are now not looking at Roi at the
end of the sales process where they've
traditionally looked at it many are
allowed looking at the beginning of the
sales process they want to understand
the ROI that they're going to get from a
vendor I think vendors have been very
weak when it comes to Roi a lot of
vendors have very big picture Roi this
is what we can do but they don't have
the hard Roi metrics the benchmarks
those Roi success stories and I think
that's a great way again to build trust
but really to differentiate yourself in
the market is having those in-depth Roi
figures and talking to customers about
it very early because again it is a
differentiator for you
number three
how can you make purchasing easier
and the key thing here is how do you
collaborate with Finance we always say
collaborate with Finance to make them
Revenue Heroes find a way to transact
easier
simpler contracts different payment
options how can you take friction out of
that purchasing process great example of
that is something that we've done at G2
you know our finance team last year took
our 12-page contract made it three pages
I can't tell you what an impact that had
on our business less legal reviews less
red lines deals get done quicker we
don't have deals dying at that legal
stage which sometimes happens a much
smoother process customers are happier
our sales teams happier it's just a lot
easier to work so definitely advice is
partner with your Finance team make them
as I said Revenue Heroes I can tell you
if your Finance team feels that they
helped you win a deal they will be the
happiest people you've ever seen I mean
they're dealing with numbers every day
when they win a deal they are ecstatic
Smiles ear to ear so think about how you
can really partner with them
number four look at those alternative
channels
this is a way you can really juice your
SAS growth for me I think it's one of
the biggest Trends I'm seeing in SAS if
you rewind again 26 years 24 year old me
channels are all the rage in Asia
Pacific that's how software vendors went
to Market very few people sold direct
SAS has changed that you know we're
traditionally selling direct when it
comes to SAS but we're now seeing the
channel emerge those channels can be
again the global Cloud marketplaces they
could be vars I think the biggest tip
there is really understand who's
influencing your buyers who's working
with them
is it the aws's in the microsofts of the
world you know is it individual vendor
marketplaces the app exchange the sap
store or are there bars you can partner
with that can get you into new
Industries and new countries another G2
example here we started working with
agencies
so again agencies have a seat at the
table with CMOS they're doing a lot of
demand generation efforts we've
partnered with them because number one
they're getting us into new customers
but probably more importantly they're
getting us higher up the value chain
we're at the CMOS table thanks to that
bar and they're pulling G2 into those
conversations we're seeing new contracts
but most importantly we're seeing bigger
contracts so definitely evaluate these
Global marketplaces and understand how
that can add and really juice the growth
that you're seeing for your SAS business
and to wrap it up key takeaways 20
minutes of a presentation the four
things that you should remember from
what I've gone over today number one
sass is still growing quickly it's
growing fast yes we have economic
headwinds but it is still growing but
it's an increasingly competitive
Marketplace and it's going to continue
to be competitive
buyers can't find good content that's
which comes out in the surveys that we
do they are struggling on content
because there are just so many
competitors out there they are getting
bombarded with content I'm sure all of
you get tons of emails from bdrs asking
you to evaluate their solution imagine
if you're a buyer a CMO a cro a CFO
these guys are getting hundreds of
messages a day from people I know people
that have had to reconfigure their email
to exclude bdr sending the messages
because they're just overwhelmed so look
at the content and find that as a way to
differentiate yourself how can you stand
out how can you build that trust and
then focus on measuring Roi this is
something that software vendors I really
feel don't do very well
yo you've got the Top Line details on
Roi the big picture go deeper get those
Roi figures the hard Roi data you can
share with customers and Prospects and
sharing that at the beginning of the
sales cycle not waiting for the very end
when someone says Hey when's this going
to pay itself back
last look for ways to take friction out
of the buying process work with Finance
like I said and Phil please feel free to
use the term I used Revenue Heroes make
them part of that process make them
understand that the impact they can have
by making that process easier more
simplified taking the friction out and
you'll see the magic happen
so with that I'd like to thank everybody
for your time I really enjoyed putting
this together it was interesting for me
to go through all the stats I hope
you've enjoyed it as well and we've got
about a couple minutes here for Q a if
anybody has any questions on that okay
great we're gonna start here and if I
can ask you to come to the mic so it
gets hit on the recording for everybody
[Music]
hi Chris uh thanks for the great session
uh two questions for you please uh
question number one
all of these uh parameters that you
spoke about and and the you know the the
obstacles and so on and so forth is that
for a typical deal size of 20 000 or is
it in what range are we talking about
yeah so these definitely would be the
averages I think you know typically when
we do the survey you know roughly
anywhere from kind of 10 to 25 000 is
where we see most of the results coming
in uh some will be a little less they're
obviously some that hit a little bit
higher but
I would actually say 5 to 25k is
probably the sweet spot where most of
the responses are coming in and in all
of these surveys uh you know you spoke
about content Trinity of content and all
of these things but did any any of your
buyers ever point out that the AE that
they're talking to also plays a key role
in their in their decision making yeah
that definitely comes through uh the
quality of the AE and the information
that they're getting from the vendor I
think he gets back to content so I would
look at that twofold there's the AE and
there's their knowledge their experience
which is going to vary you know I mean
if you're a if you're a startup probably
not as much because you're just starting
up you're still learning more
established company you're going to have
some AES with tenure that have a
tremendous amount of information and
turn an innocent amount of thought
leadership it's really going to vary the
frustration we see with customers is a
lot of the content that they're being
pushed whether it's website or coming
from the AE is not answering their
questions it's not coming deep enough so
it's a really good question though
because there's that Dynamic there's the
content that the company and typically
the marketing department is producing
and then there's the content that's in
everybody's heads that that knowledge of
okay how do you get an Roi on our our
platform our software what are the best
practices what are other people doing
yeah so it's very interesting to see
that Dynamic but yeah people are
struggling with content that's the
number one thing that came through in
the survey all right thanks Chris great
thanks for the question I think it was a
question over here somewhere ah there
you are
um this is sort of a practical question
sure because you mentioned the part
about procurement right and difficulty
in my company is facing right now is
trying to convince the customers in
particular in this region that we should
be in Opex cost not capex
because the approval processes for these
two you know expenditures are very
different yeah how do we do this
especially because at the moment many
clients we're dealing with their only
experience with software implementation
that would like be consulting firms or a
big you know Tech shops in that way how
to convince them to hey no we're SAS
we're friendly we're cheap we're
affordable easy to implement and we
should be all packs yeah that's a very
good question I know a lot of companies
grapple with this I used to be at
Forester for many years and this was a
commonly asked question especially if
SAS was emerging it was like hey we
don't want to go in that capex budget
because it's just it's tough it's tough
It's not as frequent it's budgeted uh I
mean go to my head I'd say again going
back to content content can be really
helpful because you can go deeper in the
content you know whether it's thought
leadership content on why it should be
Opex instead of capex I think providing
examples as well you know in many ways
people don't want to be the first to do
that and you know if you're making the
decision within an organization you
might not know who else has made that
similar decision so I think ways to be
able to kind of aggregate whether it's
it's other customers that you have that
have done that and being able to
document that that could be like case
study uh it could be some type of
content where others have gone through
this journey and made that decision the
decision obviously you want and what
were the impacts for them so I think it
I would say it's the only solution I'd
be lying if I said that's going to solve
it for you I think that's part of it is
is developing that content and helping
people to understand like hey you're not
the first person to do this a lot of
other people have done it and this is
the success that they've seen
culturally is quite interesting because
you you get to the decision maker CFO or
CEO whatever yeah
but how do you explain this to them in a
way that doesn't that still retains that
respect and that cultural sensitivity
you have in this region yeah it's a
tough one I uh it's always interesting
for me being out here so long seeing U.S
companies come in because it is
different you have to show that respect
and that deferential approach as you
come in and I think it's number one it's
just developing that relationship you
know very similar to the question we
just had about you know AES becoming
thought leaders as you become that
thought leaders you're providing value
to companies you know you have that
ability to start changing their mindset
you know that ability to come in and
challenge what they're thinking the key
thing is it takes time and that's
probably one of the big you know uh in
many ways differences especially as you
see U.S companies come into Asia Pacific
I've had something I've told every
manager I've had in the last 27 years
since I've started managing sales teams
that when you start in Asia Pacific you
grow slow to grow fast
and what I mean by gross low is you
develop the relationships sales are
going to take longer even with the teams
we're on the back side of the world from
U.S companies you really have to have
your teams grow up and be thought
leaders because they're not going to get
the support that you know their
colleagues in the states might be
getting and a big part of that is
establishing those relationships with
customers you know they see you as a
thought leader they start opening up a
little bit more they're more open to
your opinions your ideas where they're
not going to be that way in the first
meeting you know that timeline to get
that trust can vary you know it could be
a month for some people they're very
open it could be years for others but I
think it's developing that thought
leadership and that trust to try to
change that mindset but like I said it
takes a lot longer than what you're
going to see in the states definitely
well thank you very much all right no
worries two minutes left any other
questions yep we've got one more here
so I guess one of the things you talked
about was kind of the importance of
providing good content and kind of the
whole buyer education process I guess as
an industry you know Gartner and
Forester and G2 and there's been
Evolution from from you know where it
was you know catalogs to now you know
you've you've gone G2 and you can see
everything what's kind of next for you
guys in terms of you know the next
Cutting Edge of we just got a software
companies should be thinking about you
know how do we you know position
ourselves to be even you know better
position on the next kind of G2 offering
or the next kind of Gartner Forester
kind of fire education front yeah that's
a great question I mean I can speak from
the G2 perspective for us it's really
customizing the recommendations for
buyers and I always uh basically the
analogy I use as a library
and uh I'm gonna I'm gonna throw some
shade on G2 here and that I work for G2
I guess I can I mean I feel we still
don't give buyers everything we could
because G2 in many ways is like a
library it's like old school like when I
was growing up you go to the library you
pull out the card catalog you've got all
the bookcases you're looking for
information we provide you the library
and it's really really good but we still
make the buyer go and look for vendors
and look for how good they are read the
reviews ultimately for us we want to
make it a more google-like experience
and shame on me saying what everyone's
been talking about the last couple of
months chat GPT type experience where
you're really looking at what is best
for me like what do people I'm a
mid-market retailer in the UK looking
for marketing automation what do people
like me use what do people like me what
have they seen success with so it's
really drilling into the specificity of
the reviews because you know overall
hubspot's number one in marketing
automation they might not be the best
choice for that mid-market retailer
there might be industry specific tools
that are a better fit but it's harder
for that industry specific tool maybe to
show out on show up on the grid because
they're competing with all the other
marketing automation tools so how do we
make it more specific specific for
buyers so buyers are getting better
recommendations it's also good for
vendors because vendors then can focus
very much on hey I don't need to be
number one in my category I need to be
number one for what I'm focused on and
that's driving their you know specific
to G2 and specific to reviews that's
driving their their motivation and their
work on the platform so for me short
answer it's recommendations giving
better recommendations to buyers
[Music]